Welcome to Synthesis, a traceable workspace for systematic reviews and meta-analyses.
1.2
This overview follows a review from its protocol through screening, synthesis, and reporting.
1.3
What you see is the seeded demonstration project, using the same workflows your team will use.
2.1
Start by creating a project and assigning team roles.
2.2
In Protocol, record the review question, narrative and structured PICO, eligibility criteria, outcomes, search plan, exclusion reasons, and analysis plan.
2.3
Publish a version before screening.
2.4
Later edits require an amendment note, so the methods history remains visible.
3.1
Add each database as a source, then upload RIS, BibTeX, CSV, or NBIB exports.
3.2
Synthesis previews every record and preserves parse errors before you commit a batch.
3.3
The project always knows where each citation came from.
4.1
Run duplicate detection before screening.
4.2
Exact DOI and PMID matches sit alongside title-based suggestions for human review.
4.3
Merge a pair, reject it, or undo a merge later; the original provenance is retained.
5.1
Assign title-and-abstract and full-text work to one or more reviewers.
5.2
The queue is keyboard first: I includes, E excludes, M marks maybe, N opens a note, and J skips.
5.3
When blinding is enabled, reviewers cannot see one another's decisions.
5.4
Disagreements become conflicts for an adjudicator, while agreed decisions advance automatically.
6.1
The full-text workspace tracks retrieval attempts, attached PDFs, and screening status together.
6.2
Included reports advance to studies.
6.3
A full-text exclusion must use a configured reason, keeping PRISMA counts and exclusion tables consistent.
7.1
Build a typed, versioned extraction template, publish it, and assign extractors.
7.2
The living table resolves values in a clear order: adjudicated first, then consensus, then a single completed value.
7.3
Evidence anchors reopen the exact supporting page and quote, and CSV export is always close at hand.
8.1
For risk of bias, clone a standard instrument or build your own.
8.2
Synthesis includes RoB 2, ROBINS-I, QUADAS-2, Newcastle-Ottawa, JBI, and AMSTAR 2.
8.3
Reviewers assess domains independently; the traffic-light summary shows agreement, disagreements, and adjudicated judgments.
9.1
Map extraction fields to an outcome once, and pooled results refresh as finalized evidence changes.
9.2
Fixed and random effects, forest plots, prediction intervals, funnel plots, and small-study diagnostics are generated from deterministic statistical code, with incomplete or excluded studies called out.
10.1
On the GRADE tab, Synthesis drafts five certainty domains from the pooled evidence and risk-of-bias results.
10.2
Every judgment and rationale stays human-editable.
10.3
Mark an assessment reviewed only when the evidence is current; source changes flag it as stale.
11.1
AI assistance in Synthesis is optional, and it is designed as a second set of eyes—not an automated decision-maker.
11.2
During title-and-abstract screening, it can score and prioritize citations, then show reviewers a suggested decision and rationale.
11.3
For extraction and risk of bias, it can read the linked PDF, propose values or domain judgments, and surface supporting quotes with page references.
11.4
In GRADE, it can draft per-domain rationale from the current pooled results and protocol context.
11.5
Suggestions stay separate from the authoritative record.
11.6
A reviewer chooses what to apply, existing work is protected, and accepted changes follow the normal audit trail.
12.1
The Summary of Findings brings together study counts, participants, relative effects, anticipated absolute effects, and certainty.
12.2
Download the table as CSV when it is ready for your report.
13.1
PRISMA counts are computed live from the same decisions that drive the workflow.
13.2
Save a frozen snapshot for a submission, and download the publication-ready flow diagram as SVG or PNG.
14.1
Finally, the audit trail records who changed what, when, and why.
14.2
Role-aware filtering preserves reviewer blinding.
14.3
Together with capability-gated exports, it gives the review a defensible chain from source record to final conclusion.
15.1
Synthesis now keeps review coordination beside the evidence.
15.2
Use project channels and direct messages for questions, mentions to bring in the right colleague, and assignment messages with due dates and per-person completion.
15.3
Unread badges show where attention is needed without exposing another project's activity.
16.1
The notification bell brings direct messages, manuscript mentions, and assigned work into one inbox.
16.2
Each item links back to its project context, and read state stays synchronized as the team moves between conversations and evidence tasks.
17.1
Configure institutional proxy and OpenURL links once at the organization level.
17.2
Each full-text record then offers DOI, PubMed, and library resolver routes.
17.3
Owners can also run legal open-access retrieval through Unpaywall and Europe PMC, with successful files following the same validation and attempt history as manual uploads.
18.1
The reference library brings included studies, methods papers, and background sources together.
18.2
Add by DOI or PMID, paste RIS or BibTeX, or enter a record manually.
18.3
Format Vancouver, AMA, APA, or NLM bibliographies and export to reference managers.
18.4
A guideline family shares one library.
19.1
Draft the manuscript section by section with assignments, editing locks, autosave, comments, mentions, version history, and approval states.
19.2
Insert citations from the project library; the reference list follows first-use order and the selected style.
19.3
Export the current manuscript as DOCX when the team is ready.
20.1
For multi-question guidelines, create a guideline hub and add one full review for each PICO question.
20.2
Teams can also convert an existing standalone review without recreating its evidence or history.
20.3
The hub holds shared context, chat, references, and general manuscript sections, while each PICO keeps its complete review workflow.
21.1
The compiled preview assembles the guideline's general sections followed by each PICO question, with one bibliography across the family.
21.2
Full DOCX export is enabled only when the caller can read every included sub-project, so a partial guideline is never produced silently.
22.1
That is the current Synthesis workspace: one connected system for evidence review, team coordination, reference management, manuscript development, and multi-question guidelines.
22.2
Open the user guide for task-by-task instructions, role guidance, shortcuts, and troubleshooting.